We are going to have a good time.
George Higgins, Sergeant.
I don't mind at all.
How do I follow Obama's law?
I've never had that apprehension before.
You didn't know that with Eddie Doyle?
I had figures being written before Eddie Doyle was published.
I had Kogan written before Digger was published.
I've always had the next book written before that one was published.
But Balmer, I finished just before it went into production because of the, as I said, as I tell you, I don't love my team.
And then my computer blew up, my previous Apple.
And I had to go to a Mac, and then I had to go to Microsoft, and it took me the agonies of the damned.
to learn that program.
I use the word purple today.
Now, I use Microsoft and I've learned it now.
So I've learned, I probably use 8% of the capacities of that program in that computer.
But that happens to be the 8% I need.
It makes the black match on the white paper.
That's all I want.
I don't want to do spreadsheets, graphics, anything like that.
I want to make the black match on the white paper.
And it does that.
But the consequence of it was, and I didn't finish Barmer until last fall,
And it was time to put it right into production then.
I mean, you had to go for a copy of it.
So it didn't really get into production until... Well, we caught up to it.
So if it got into production, I'd say, sometimes, right up out of the spring.
And that was about right.
We had hard work since October.
But the result was that I didn't get the next book written before Varma came out.
When did you start working on Varma?
I mean, is this the natural progression of Varma?
When I got into the... There was another thing I did while I was having the problems with my teeth.
I got something pretty close to septicemia with my teeth.
The periodontal disease that I had the surgery to prevent happened anyway.
And I ended up having five teeth.
And I was really sick of that.
And at the same time, filled with abject fear.
That was the real motivation.
Not the Nicoderm patch, which I also used.
I decided I'd try to stop smoking.
Because nobody can smoke the way I was smoking without doing damage.
I was waking up in the middle of the night and blowing chloroceptic down my throat, badly to kill the pain and badly to kill the smell of burned flesh.
I was smoking two and a half days a day, every day, rain and shine, including holy days of obligation.
And I just, I knew it.
I had to stop doing this.
And when did you quit smoking?
I didn't quit.
I'll never quit.
I'm a junkie.
I haven't had one for quite a long time, a year and a half.
And I must confess, after what I went through with withdrawal, I saw, I had a witness when I was a federal prosecutor.
He was a heroin junkie.
We turned him.
And we had him on methadone.
Methadone maintenance.
But I guess we didn't maintain him well enough.
He went out of withdrawal.
And I saw him.
He had the shakes and the chills and the fever and the sweat.
And it was agony.
Well, he was in it for five or six days.
I was only in it for one.
But when I used up my reservoir of nicotine from the soft tissue, the biggest pack was giving me 21 milligrams.
I was used to 60 a day.
When I used up my reservoir, my reserve, the level, say, I began to get hemp packs.
No, the tenth day that was.
The eleventh day I was disconsolate for no reason at all because I had nothing to be controlled about.
And the third day I had to go to bed.
And I said, I tried to quit many times, stopped any time before.
Each time I had gone into the initial stages of physiological withdrawal.
And each time I said, I can't do this, I got work to do.
And that was the excuse to resume smoking.
Do you crave it still?
No.
And I think the paradox is, I think it's because in her, the agony of withdrawal is just so awful.
And there's something else they don't tell you.
It says on the patch, by the way, the direction may help to alleviate the symptoms of withdrawal.
There's an obvious corollary implied there, isn't there?
It may not, too.
All right, we're back on again.
Tell me about the concept of normal law.
There was many.
There never is.
When I got through...
with the teeth and the hot smoke.
Then I started working on the novel I'd been working on, and that's when the computer went down.
And furthermore, the second computer went down.
Now, actually, I'd say that.
It was really the program that just cracked, and you can't buy that disc anymore.
It doesn't exist.
TFS Wright, or Apple II C. I know, and I have it.
Well, it doesn't exist anymore.
You can't replace it.
But look, the whole novel is on that program.
You give them your dits?
No, of course I don't give them my dits.
I give them manuscripts.
I'm talking.
I'm 54 years old, for tripe's sakes.
I'm not giving dits to anybody.
I give them manuscripts.
I write books.
Except that if you make changes, it really will eliminate typos.
You'll never eliminate typos.
It's always going to be a human enterprise, and it will always be imperfect.
No, no just paper.
So I can't... It's principle, I get it.
Yes, it is.
I'm more comfortable with it, and we're going to do it by way.
I'm the guy... You can't start without me in the Senate.
If you want to publish my book, I am essential.
Well, anyway...
I had to go through this agony that I told you about, learning a new machine and a new program, and it was agony.
See, I don't know how to type.
I never get computer screen headaches because I don't look at the screen.
I have to look at the keyboard still.
These glasses were never necessary for me.
I do 90 words in a minute.
And it's by looking at?
Yeah.
I'm a newspaper man.
I mean, I do 90 words a minute, but as well, this is how I do it.
But I drive my children nuts.
And I don't make that many cycles, although I make more of the computer because he's just really going to get a... Anyway, I finally learned the...
Now I've got to find somebody who can convert the PFS right to Microsoft so that I can continue the way.
Well, I'm sure you can do it.
Well, I didn't find anybody who could.
And my son's a computer genius.
So I go back and start reading a novel over again because I'm going to have to put it on a loop with myself or I'll hire somebody to do it.
I did it.
I didn't like it.
No, I didn't want it from it.
So I put it in a box and saved it with all the other false stars I've made.
I had about 140 pages.
Yeah, I've got several of them.
I don't always get it right.
All this bunk about being an established writer, yeah, but that doesn't mean you're always on the money.
Who was it that told me?
James Lee Burton.
Yeah.
I love it when they called me an overnight success.
Yeah, it took me 70 years to become an overnight.
I said that not right.
Is that right?
I said, when Eddie Cole came out, I was...
Well, anyway, now I've got
the new computer and I can use it because I don't have a button to finish on it.
And I didn't know what I was going to do, so I went sailing.
I got a boat again after eight years of being boatless.
Bootless I've been called many times because I was also boatless.
And it didn't bother me at all.
Except when I passed water or a sailboat out on the water or a sailboat there.
Things like that.
But otherwise it didn't bother me.
Then I ate my guts out.
But otherwise you didn't want to.
And when I got back in, whenever I got back, I started in probably September of 92.
On the rooftops of the Blazers.
Yeah.
I tried to figure out what happened after the season, so you actually began with a scene and two characters.
That was it.
But I had no idea what was going on.
When I sat in that first chapter, I didn't know they were waiting for an idiot.
It was like, yeah, I'm waiting for Bomber's Law to show up in the first chapter.
Oh, I never know what the title is.
I didn't know the title, but the idea of where we were going was, you know.
I didn't know.
That's why I write so fast, to find out how it comes out.
My friend, Bill Rosenberg, who's a professor at the University of Chicago, he does that radio show, The American Leader.
Boston's the only market that doesn't have an outlet.
His description of it is that my book happened to me.
And that's not that.
That's pretty good.
I think he's right.
That's definitely the conversation.
Well, do you find...
I mean, because you are a writer, but you do, as you say, you whack out that in the woods a minute.
Yeah, I do.
And it's white, but it's not a first draft kind of a novel.
Well, it was.
It was a first draft.
No kidding.
After the request of Ash Green, the editor, I cut 175 words.
That's the only 175 words.
175.
It was toward the end of the book.
He said it was extraneous and did nothing to the story.
He told me I could cut it, so I could.
No, I think he was right.
I didn't fight it.
I knew I had a right to it when I was a rookie.
Defending Billy Ryan.
which was written on the old machine.
It was a seventh draft.
I didn't know until the fifth draft how Jerry really won the game.
I thought he really did do it on skills.
He said, just as he thought.
And it wasn't until he used the weight in the fifth draft that it could be Cadillac Teddy, because it was fixed.
But Jerry didn't know it.
Then I did another draft, very fast.
The draft, I mean, I started the first word on the first page, and I go to the last period on the last page.
It goes through it.
Then you go back and try new things.
I guess what I'm driving at is, because we did talk about it.
I'm talking about the word processor.
I mean, I've changed my M.O.
The lure of the word processor is that it starts to feel subjective.
It does allow you...
I did it on a typewriter.
I did four drafts, and that was a 700-page manuscript.
And it was a press draft every time.
I cannot bear to turn in
Foul copies.
I turn in fair copies.
That's it.
I'm a professional.
And it's going in that way.
More than three titles on any page, the page gets redone.
Let's go the same way.
Yeah.
My agent and my editor tell me that I'm crazy.
Just send it in the way that I'm bullshit.
I send it in a box.
No two elastics around the damn thing.
No.
A box.
And that's the way I want to get it back.
And, of course, I never do it.
It comes with four elastics on it.
People have rested coughing.
That's how Mike came back.
Coughed up snuffs and bits of chewing tobacco on it.
It's a kiss in the eye.
Anyway, since I went to the Macintosh, I've got a tremendously great memory that I can use.
So now I can revise each day.
I revise each day what was at the beginning of the chapter that I may have started with.
Monday, you're keeping various versions of it, too, right?
Oh, no, I revise in C2, and that becomes the concordance.
So with all that memory, you can keep several variants, too.
I could, but I don't want them.
I get confused now.
I know when it's right, and I stop rewriting it.
When you erase something, it may have some good elements in it.
No, I don't erase that.
I put that into the copy now.
I've got all the previous drafts.
So they're not very attractive.
I have books that there are Billy or a magician.
I have, right now, three, well, two-point-something manuscripts of the book that will appear someday.
but maybe not next year no he didn't give me a good enough price oh he's been he's been planning he's been planning big wetlands on my he figured sooner or later
Unless they reinstate the tax deduction, and I get my own appraisal, and he gives me enough of an appraisal so that I get perfect to his collection.
Oh, sure.
It's actually the kind of stuff that he has.
Yeah.
But I am not going to give it to him.
You know what they used to say.
They won't expect you in the morning.
But I mean, with such a body of work, really.
How many books now?
25.
In 21 years, is that what it is?
Yeah.
I'm thinking of this title.
It's almost, you're the fellow who said it.
You hear the explanation in the newspaper 30 years ago.
And you're the only one, to the best of my recollection, who has ever come up with the obvious.
Talk about the furlough and butter.
He said there was an explanation for all his damn hard work.
Well, I like my work.
I love to do it.
I'm not making a sacrifice when I do it.
Don't compare me to Trollope.
That unreadable.
I'm not comparing you to anybody in terms of the work ethic.
The work ethic.
I'm shorter.
No, I can't read them.
When I was in college, I pledged it.
I didn't have time to read Batchester's house.
So I skimmed it.
I probably skimmed about a quarter of it and skipped back.
And I got lucky, and I aced the exam.
The question on it was to have to be tough to find it.
So I've always been kind of uneasy about it.
You know, that was a dishonorable thing, even though I got away with it.
He is so correctable.
You know, well, then we're going on a book tour in England, but it's a hiatus, and my publisher in England gives me the use of it.
condo on the Costa Brava in the wintertime.
It's colder than a plastic toilet seat.
The place was a beautiful condo.
And I knew that this was in the couch, so I brought a couple of
Three copies of Trollope of me.
I had Barchester Towers.
And I'd have forgotten what the other two were.
And I sit down in Tom's great living room.
And, of course, it's book lined.
It's gorgeous.
It's panel, something like that.
The upstairs room is this place.
And I stand at Barchester Towers.
I have this rule.
You get 60 pages out of me.
You get my attention or you're finished.
I agree.
And the book flies across the room.
You have no obligation to finish a book.
Right, I'm not in college.
At page 46, Matt Tristan Towers went flying across the room.
I stuck it in Tom's bookcases along with the other two troughs that I'm never going to read.
You know, my opening line that I was shocked at school was boring.
I tell these kids, you know, the difference between me...
And your teacher gets paid to read what you write.
I mean, I'm a leader who is here to be entertaining and to be inspiring.
But if you don't get me, I'm gone.
I'm under no obligation to read this stuff.
There isn't going to be a clue.
Except I impartially agree.
I don't know, I can't recall now whether it was a sudden drive to the trip to review Nigel Hamilton's book, JFK, which is one of the most abysmally edited, hawkishly, badly written chapters of vandalism that I've ever had in his book.
And it was long.
Yeah, please.
We've got to think about...
I'm working on a book, and for that reason I'll never let them have anything to do with the book until I finish it.
Nobody reads my books.
Nobody.
Including my wife.
Really?
You never read her past?
Nope.
You don't try our rhythms?
Fred Allen was right.
Nothing good was ever accomplished by a committee.
And that's particularly true of what?
There's one exception.
What?
The King James Bible.
Yes, I would agree with that.
I'm grudging.
So Jack is asking what Bomber's Law was like.
It was really late.
My deadline was June 30th.
And I didn't get it in until... Actually, I do know when I delivered it.
I delivered it...
in April.
Well, it was 1993, not 92.
So he's bugging me.
I was kind of working on the novel of D and a day out of something I was teaching.
I love to teach.
You love to teach?
Oh, I love it.
Get me out of the house.
I have these wonderful students.
How many classes a week do you do?
I carry six hours a week, but I do it all in one day.
I go to office hours the same day?
No office hours.
The only thing office hours are far is that curry favor and kiss class.
And you don't need it in my class.
If you do your work, you'll get a B. And if you get inspired, you'll get an A. And if you don't do your work, I'll flunk it.
That's it.
That's the deal.
Do you require them all to show up, too?
Oh, yeah, they have to show up.
They have to participate in discussion.
I goad them.
I insult them.
We are going to have a Socratic dialogue regardless of your views on the subject.
You are going to dissent.
We are going to have controversy.
You are going to take issue with what I have to say.
The fact that I say it doesn't make it right, fiction writing and the judgment of it is purely subjective.
There's no way to change it.
I don't know if I'm right.
But that's the way I do it.
This is the way I do it.
It doesn't mean I'm right.
It's not the only way.
And this is quite successful.
And this is what I think of this particular story by Ernest Hemingway.
You may not agree with me.
Maybe you're right.
Anyway, I would not let Jack know what I was writing about.
Oh, I did tell him about two cops.
They hated each other.
Because for one of them, quite a while, I didn't know why they hated each other.
I don't know if you've heard the radio ads like this.
No.
They both had very good reasons for hating each other.
Well, as it got on and on into the story, now what was the question?
I don't know, but I like where it's going.
Yeah, but now I have to have a finish with that.
Well, the effort goes on and on.
I did ask the question.
I finally figured it out.
It said, but you read it, and you don't show them anything.
I don't show anything.
It started with that.
Well, anyway, the story went on, and then I found out why they hated each other, and they both had very good reasons.
But it's that process.
I think this angle started...
And you said that nobody reads your stuff, it's not even your wife.
No, that was a digression.
Like my carriages, I'm a butcher, but I annoy you.
I am too.
You often forget where you sit.
It's interesting, the byway, you know.
I like the byway.
They're more fun than the road.
I guess I'm interested in the reaction to your work in England is extraordinary.
That's partly the cachet of the import.
It's what?
I'm a domestic here.
Yeah, I'm the home zone.
The profit is its own country and not all that crap.
In England, I'm an import.
Yeah, but nevertheless, there are dozens of scores of imports in England.
Why is it that they think that you're thinking foreign so appreciatively to your...
I suppose it's a freak show thing.
I don't know.
They think I lost.
I have no idea what it is.
I can give you one pass-off from this.
I really like him.
My father was a truly worthy English teacher who became a high school headmaster because of what he imagined to be the superior prestige
And what he knew to be, correctly, is Sirius Alvin.
And as a result, I never had him until he became the principal of my hometown high school.
He always taught me another town.
And he came into my class one day, the English teacher got sick.
And my father didn't call us up to speed, he called his own man.
And he came into that classroom, he was electrified.
He was really beautiful.
Was it a different person in your eyes?
I had no idea my father could do that.
I had absolutely no idea what an absolutely riveting teacher he was.
I didn't even know what a riveting teacher.
Did you tell him that?
No.
No, I didn't.
He had always planned that he was going to retire early.
Then he became full-time teacher, Church of the Teachers Association, MTA.
And he didn't teach it all, and he didn't headmaster it.
And his expectation was to retire early, 62.
And he had set it up with the president of Stonehill College.
He was going to teach Shakespeare, which is as many, I don't know, carry a full load, but only one course.
And before that, he was going to go to England.
He was a Shakespearean scholar.
He really was.
He studied under Kittredge, however.
Unfortunately, two years before he retired, he died.
And this seriously complicated his plan.
So I have been braised.
from the company with this notion of what he was going to do.
And then I had seen what he could do with Shakespeare.
Well, of course, I had seen it to a degree at home, but I didn't know I was doing it.
He taught me Shakespeare.
But Shakespeare I knew when I got to college.
I had learned from my class from home.
Not from my teacher in high school.
Oh, it's God help her.
Shakespeare is my passion as well, I should point out.
Well, my teacher of Shakespeare in high school is a well-intentioned lady, and a very cultivated one.
That's pretty good.
I mean, he did that in less than a minute.
They make a lot of them.
You think they make a lot of Bombay martinis?
Oh, no.
No.
So I got to England for the first time, my first trip across the water in 1972 when I was storing oil.
And that was just electrifying.
And in all the interviews I did, the word travels fast in the lodge that I used to work in and you working still.
The word gets around in the media.
This guy is all right.
He really likes it here.
He's in here with a chip on his shoulder.
And I suppose it was that apprehension.
After all, I'm a Boston Irish Catholic.
I might not be that tall for the English.
I love the voice.
The only time the English take an Irishman seriously is when he's armed.
There's another one that I would like to see in print.
The reason that the English, just like the Irish, is because we took their language and write it better than they do.
So that may be part of it.
I have always been... I think London is...
The people I know who are... As likable as some people are, it's irrelevant to whether or not they like their writing.
But that reinforced it.
I guess.
And I got there just as the book was coming out.
There weren't that many people who knew that.
You're not an easy read.
I mean, people... No, I'm not.
And that's another thing I want to talk about.
Every single book on the New York Times that's sold was about 15.
It used to be 10 when any quote made it to number 5.
Selling fewer than 25,000 copies in a year.
Every single book on that list was 15.
Now it sold 40,000 copies in a month from what I did.
Almost none of them has been reviewed at the time of publication by the New York Times Book Review.
The New York Times Book Review has become irrelevant to the creation of its own list.
And that is because... I review for the times a couple of years.
The reason for that is because the books that get on the list now are passive, like television.
The consumer is passive.
We do nothing.
We do not need a brain to read The Bridges of Madison County.
We're cleaning sales with quality, I think.
Yes, we are.
Maybe that's not a fair...
No, we are equating sales with sales.
That's right.
The Madison County thing, it's like going to be living to see.
A brain is a serious handicap.
A brain is a bad.
Did you read the Times things last week that the guy said, what gifts did you give?
I think he said this Madison County guy.
He'd give Darwin this, and he'd give him a Howard Stern tape, and ask him if he still believes in evolution.
Some publicity agent wrote that.
It's pretty good.
It wasn't a bad line, but I don't think Wall wrote that.
Anyway, I write books for active readers.
You can't skim your books.
I am not trying to tell you what to think.
I mean, you could say that.
You could probably say that it's impossible to skim your books.
Oh, no, you can do it.
You can read them for young people.
I want that to be possible.
If you're in a sort of tired, weary mood,
and you really don't want to think too much, and you've been reading the book, and you feel as though you ought to read some more of it.
I do a lot of skimming.
I think you can... I miss nuances, and I miss... Well, yes, you will.
You'll miss stuff.
There is one passage in there that I bet you almost nobody will get, in which Brian Dennison is talking about his friend Kerry from Vietnam in the same wing of the Air Force, whose father-in-law retired,
And he got deeply into birdwatching, which had always been at that location before then.
And he will call him up at all hours of the day and night, particularly when he's at work as general counsel at 3M out in Minneapolis, and tell him what he's just seen that morning in the fucking swamp.
And as Terry says to Brian, who's going to get kind of tiresome in for a while?
And there is a play in there.
which I bet there are ten people who are ever going to get it, about the prothonotary warbler and the Woodstock.
And he also saw the Woodstock.
Which is Winston?
Winston.
What are the Chambers?
The prothonotary warbler was the bird that Hiss told him he had seen.
When Hiss was denying he'd ever met.
Well, wait.
This is playing on... And Woodstock was the typewriter that proved the pumpkin papers were genuine.
And Woodstock is also a bird in Peanuts.
Well, you can see, you can get pretty deeply into the 7th or 8th convolution on this stuff.
And I really don't expect anybody to get it.
That's for me.
They're having fun.
Yeah.
Is it like a crossword puzzle?
No, I just do this now and then.
Are you trying to test the vital signs of your readership?
Do you hear from them?
Now and then I get one.
I have a correspondent who's a retired professor of English out at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver.
He's an American national but he went up there to get a job.
I got involved with him on the subject of ferret legging.
Because the person who wrote ferret legging, you recall that plays a pattern in the book.
And I wrote to George because I had already used it.
I had already had Brennan talking about ferret legging.
I heard the story years ago.
I don't know who told it to me now.
And it turns out he was obviously giving me the leg or else somebody was giving him the leg.
Because there's no such thing.
But George got on the case.
And he, first of all, ascertained that that's not a recognized sport in the Highlands.
And secondly, there are two men in a small village in Wales who are sick and tired of the boisterous boyos coming out of the pubs on Saturday night.
And they've got a ferret named Fred.
And the next time that happens, they're going to put Fred down the pants.
So I sent George a copy of the book.
But this sort of stuff, it's that...
the wheels within the wheel that enable me they don't enable me yeah they do enable me you think that at some point let's jump ahead many years when neither one of us will be around maybe you're going I'm not I've got to get a habeas corpus and when they're whichever institution is the repository for the collecting writings of George B. Higgins
Do you think there will have to be an annotated edition of each work?
That is a problem for the doctoral candidates of the future, not me.
I put it in there.
If you can get it out, go ahead.
Is it necessary in your mind for the appreciation?
No.
And I don't think, I didn't think when I was in college, and I don't think today, that you have to read Hollinship's Chronicles to appreciate Shakespeare's Tragedy.
Read the Hamlet written by Saxon.
You don't have to do that.
Of course you don't.
Does it enrich your scholarly, as opposed to your lizard brain, animal delight, appreciation of the tragedies?
Probably not.
But when you're white, it's enough for me.
And that's the way I would read my book.
I don't expect any reader to track me down the nights and down the days.
Now, on the one hand, when these things are coming, these cute things that you're doing for yourself, they're harmless, but are you constantly being motivated by telling the good story?
Yeah.
Absolutely.
That's my job.
So even when you...
I didn't know why Harry had been shipped out to Western Massachusetts.
You see, that's the one that carries me right away, because he does come from a family with some means.
I mean, why doesn't he quit?
Why does he suffer?
He likes it.
He likes being an investigator.
When he says he went out in North Adams.
No, he wasn't in North Adams.
He was in Northampton.
I'm sorry.
That's not true.
That's true.
North Adams have used it earlier books.
That is really the thing.
That really is the exile of Massachusetts.
It is.
There was a crack in there.
I've got that on my short list of papers to pitch when I call them.
No authors are going to go out there for a reason.
North Adams daily transcripts.
That's right.
It's going to be one of my clients.
It's an ideal outlet for my colleagues.
They want a piece on George Higgins, but they don't have a staff with it.
Well, just make sure for them, put in a note that I would be a piece correspondent for that earlier in 62 or 62.
Maybe I'll just send them a copy of the top top unit and tell them to use it.
Trying to pitch the column.
Go ahead.
Why not?
I would.
Go ahead.
I'm sorry.
Oh, sorry.
You're talking about writing the good story, the guy, the baggage, the creative process of getting it together.
Now I know why.
I know that Harry's been out of town, but I don't know what Brennan had to do with it.
And after a while, I find out that whatever it was, it's something that annoyed Harry's wife, and that's usually another woman.
usually although i suppose now nowadays it could be another boy too the old the old sign on the lawyer says assume nothing
I've learned to be a lot more circumspect in my inquiries about how's everybody?
It's a dream ass out of you and me.
Yeah.
Don't assume a goddamn thing in the newspaper business.
Go ahead.
Well, we're getting some good quotes right now.
Things start to pick up.
And it will often happen...
Retrospectively, my editor, not having finished the book, will call me up and say, you know, this doesn't work here.
Maybe he's on page 104.
Did you hear that?
Yeah, I do.
I explained to him.
Now, wait.
He says you should cut this.
No, I need that.
I'm going to use that later on.
Well, of course, I know this because now I've finished the book.
That's when he received it for the third election.
But when I put it in there, I didn't know how I was going to use it.
So the ferret legging.
I put the ferret legging in.
I put it in before George Pitonick sent me the final result of his quest.
That there is no such thing and somebody had given me the leg.
But no ferret, thank God.
Now I've got it in there.
It's easy enough to take it out, as you point out, with the computer.
But I don't want to take it out.
It's colorful.
Do you like it?
I like it.
It's good stuff.
It's nice.
Yeah.
The cheaper the hoods, the gaudier the patters, that's a lot.
The cheaper the crook, I guess.
I'm going to leave it in there.
Now I am just about at the point where I'm writing about the confrontation of the dog track.
And I didn't know that was going to happen until the day I wrote it.
I never knew.
And I thought that was hilarious.
I really enjoyed that.
I will revise that with loving hair over the next two or three days.
I am a bad guy.
I think it's so good.
Here's George Joey getting moralistic about the white system.
That gun mall fucking around.
Oh, it was handsome.
This is, I tell you, these are words to look like.
And she's telling this, I can kill this.
What I can do with this goddamn moralizing.
I loved it.
I would say that you love your own story.
I do.
I'm sorry when they're over.
It's almost a post-poet.
I am really sorry when my character...
As they foretold, they have all vanished.
Our rebels now are under.
No, Ariel.
Our rebels now are ended.
These are active, as I have foretold you, of all spirits.
And I've managed to be in there.
We are such a... That's possible.
Is it?
It's possible to speak.
Okay, you're quite right.
I stand corrected.
I'm not... I mean, I've used this too much.
I've read it recently.
Well, that's all right.
You're right, anyway, however you got it.
And Marnie Nixon saying the...
a lot of the doodle parts for Audrey Hepburn and My Fair Lady.
I just thought you'd like to know that.
I was doing it with Bob Parker a couple months ago, and I asked about the next book, and it's going to be one of those big generational, it's really not going to be expensive.
He mentioned it to me.
It sounds horrific.
It sounds great.
And I said, what are you calling it?
He said, All I Yesterdays.
And I said, he said, all I yesterday, and then I said, have lighted fools the way to dusty death.
He said, it's such a pleasure to be interviewed by somebody.
This is a nice title.
It is.
I loved his last book, by the way.
So did I. It's the best thing that Bob ever did.
You know why?
And I told him.
I went to his house.
I think it was the refreshment that he got from Eric Melvin.
Right.
It turned into foolishness.
Yeah.
Because it got him out of the... I don't know how Bob has read so many books about the same character.
I've written three about the same character.
And they've done the two, the first two were five years ago.
I could never do one either.
However, there is a world of Georgians, right, isn't there?
Oh, yeah.
Now and then there's a sort of reference to our cameo.
Now and then...
Parker and I group each other.
Every once in a while.
Gary Kennedy, when he's talking about bad-eye mold.
Yeah, but there's a good, there's a good private eye around.
Yeah, and somebody named Stratford or something, but he thinks he's a sort of just about to go down.
Yeah, I remember that.
So in Parker's next book, he said, the lawyer was a B.C.
law guard.
Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha.
There was a woman down in Miami who wrote for me.
And there's a line in Mandeville, Dallas, in which Cory is in the office of the investigator in Springfield.
And he said, in the room, they came and went talking to Michelangelo.
And she wrote for action.
a letter to me because the trouble is tracking me down to sending the letter to my agent.
And I always cancel those letters.
Always.
My hander runs the subway.
On that computer.
But I sign them.
I use my own stationery, so if they are collectors, they can have it.
That was the reason I asked.
And she was like, all right.
Well, we can get on to that subject, too.
I'm good for several hours on that topic.
I'd be interested to hear it.
She said, what does Michelangelo have to do with that?
was anything in that story.
And so I said, look, I just have a spot.
I sit at this pipe where I have this machine all day long, and I'm all by myself.
And now and then I get a little bit goofy.
And I just threw in the line from C.S.
Eliot because of it.
That's what I do.
And it doesn't have anything to do with the story.
And she wrote back and thanked me so duly.
Now, of course, she took the end of the town out of the library, I'm sure.
And I didn't make a dollar off this moment, but she... It takes time to think about it.
I like that kind of a reader.
She's reading you.
Yeah.
Tell me, George, are you working on a... I mean, do you see all of these 25 books in 23 years, 21 years, 50 books that's projected?
you know, over the next... I have no idea.
Whatever, but I mean, you see it as part of a corpus thing that, you know, when you talk about a... Bob Parker has done an excellent number of books, and I'm not bringing him into this place.
Oh, John Cheever was right, and then Bob Parker... Everybody else I know was industrial.
He stepped up on the plate and taken the cup.
Industrial.
Okay.
It's like Bobby Dole was about baseball.
It's King Day, you play.
Even though you're maybe a little off your feet, you go out and you play and you take your rips.
And if you don't do well, well, you get them small.
But you show up and you do your job.
And that's what writers do.
It always amuses me and in part annoys me when people say, you just had a book out last year.
Why have you got a book out this year?
You go to work.
On public transportation, you walk past somebody else's house, and there's a bricklayer there, a mason putting up a brick wall.
You go by in the morning, he's got his string out.
And when you come back that night, he's laid 20 foot of bricks.
That's what he does.
That's what masons do.
They lay bricks.
Nobody's surprised.
And the next morning when you go out, it's still that same 20 foot of brick.
But when you get home that night, it's 40 foot of brick.
And so on and so on.
And nobody's surprised.
Nobody's surprised when the guy who buys the 18th year from Omaha to Boston, goes from Omaha to Boston, puts on another road here, goes from Boston to Omaha.
That's what he does.
But when writers write, people say, oh, you're still writing.
Of course, that's what we're doing.
That's what we do.
We're incorrigible.
It's my job.
That's what I do.
It's not a profession.
No profession is self-collecting.
Profession, by definition, the entry is controlled by a board that determines whether you deserve the credential.
There is no such board for life.
There is such a board...
a shadow war that's determined to just be a war.
But they're all political anyway.
Yes, they are.
And it is absurd.
Absolutely.
It's ridiculous.
And it would be laughable in any other context that Tony Morrison is... I was just going to say that.
It is absurd.
There's someone who's written quote-unquote six books, only four of which are even arguably worthwhile.
Two of them are absolutely negligible, only one of which is truly of merit, and that's beloved.
You should receive the Nobel Prize.
That's the one I liked least, by the way.
Well, that's the only one I saw any merit in.
But I must confess, I've become very impatient by that.
Now, I will say, I had lunch, dinner.
I use Boston for my book.
Or New England.
Because I don't have to work at all.
And that, in my explanation, has that.
I don't do that.
Everybody involved in the enterprise, first the writer, then the reader, ultimately the reader, knows that a novel is a fact of life.
Goes well planned.
So I've got to make the reader suspend his disbelief.
And the way to do that is to make
the reader believe correctly that the writer really knows what he's talking about.
And one of the things you have to talk about is where the characters are.
So I put them where I am.
I change things all over the place.
But the place is always going to be normal.
But how about the characters?
Are they all part of a family?
No.
Now, Louise Woodrick, for instance...
It gives you a schematic of all the characters and the relationships.
I have no intention of doing that.
I am willing to play ball me so much in William Fox and a yacht on the top of the county.
I've gone about as far as I'm going.
Every so often I'll have a yacht on.
By a character from another book.
But again, that's having fun.
Yeah, and there's another reason why you don't do it.
It's by some odd chance you sell a book to the movies.
They own every character in it.
But it's a factor.
The Diggers game was sold for the movies.
It was never made.
The characters in the Diggers game, therefore, belong to
Well, actually one of them did.
No.
It's too hard for me.
The last time that a producer and a writer and a director took an option on the Kennedy book.
to make it into a television series.
They follow the usual procedure.
Everybody knows that Hollywood... George, excuse me.
I'm Ristow, AP, early 60s.
Oh, yeah.
How are you?
Very happy for your success.
Thank you.
Everybody knows that Hollywood banking mobiles don't read books of any kind.
So a five-page phrase C is prepared.
A five-page phrase C is prepared of each book that is proposed to purchase for television rights.
And the people who are going to do the Jerry Kennedy television miniseries
based on then two books.
Walked into the meeting with the people who had received the five-page Tracy approximately three weeks before and discovered that they, the producers, were the only people in the room who knew who Jerry Kennedy was.
They haven't read the five days.
Do you seriously think that people who work that way can make their way through the digger's game?
Can't make their way through the digger's game?
Do you think they can get their way through the farmer's law?
I don't.
Who has farmers?
Thousands.
Let me say something.
If I could write the kind of shit that they buy, I would do it.
Give me a definition for Barman's Watch.
There's a purpose to this question.
Ah, this is the one that I gave my editor when he was trying to get his hands on it before I was ready to let him do it.
He asked me, well, compare it to something.
I think he meant another book.
No, I don't mean the book.
I mean the title, the actual Barman's Watch.
a working definition for what Barman's Law is.
When you can't tell why a guy did a thing, you always know why he did it.
He did it for the money.
Now, do you understand?
I hope I'm not going to overreach here.
There are certain titles that become idiots, that enter the language, that write stuff, catch the point, too.
And there is, in my mind, almost this quality to this.
Yeah, I hope so.
Is that nice?
Have you heard that before?
I have not heard that before.
But I hope you're right.
I hope you're right.
I really do.
That would be very nice.
I notice a lot of people, and 20 years after the fact, 21 years after the fact, I'm sure that in most instances it's quite inadvertent, but they refer to
combinations of individuals working toward a common goal, as the friends are.
I think I know where they got it.
I don't think they do.
That's right.
Well, the world according to so-and-so, yeah, they've never read the book.
And they've never heard of Garth, and they don't know what happened to the gear.
But they've been influenced by something, you know?
That's the greatest compliment you can make.
You pick up any work of Shakespeare.
You know, the unkindest kind of all is Greek to me.
I mean, these are all Greek books.
But it is an interesting book.
Oh, let's go.
I didn't even know how Barber got his name until I wrote that stuff.
At the end, the very last page of the book.
I didn't know that.
All I knew that he was Barmer.
So when did the title come in for you?
Well, it kicked in when Dennison said Barmer's Law.
And that's really early.
I think it's around page 80.
When he stopped talking about the housing.
There is a Murphy's Law, which everybody knows.
Remember the Peter Principles?
Yep.
These things didn't make it quite as big as the other ones.
Oh, the Peter Principles did.
You feel upward.
I love the Peter Principles.
I think Joe Fox, the editor at Randhouse...
is one of the great examples of the Peter Pritzker.
He married Kaz Canfield's daughter.
Well, that does it.
That's how he got into publishing.
And he was... He failed upward to his level of his own in common.
And he was watching Nora Ephring, you know, and... He's the guy, by the way.
I don't need this... For 30 years, Danny Laferriere has been haunted by a single scene from his youth in Haiti.
It is the summer of 1963.
and a ten-year-old boy sits on the outdoor gallery of a provincial home a few kilometers outside Port-au-Prince with a smiling, peaceful old woman known only as Da.
The old woman is my grandmother, he writes in his autobiographical novel, An Aroma of Coffee.
The boy is me.
This evocative, fictionalized memoir, beautifully depicted through the recollections of the child, is a mosaic of sparkling images
delicately translated by David Hummel.
Fact, folklore, gossip, and superstition are effortlessly refracted to the prism of memory.
The youngster thinks a dragonfly being devoured by flying ants is just as diverting as a mysterious dark room at the back of his house.
He is afraid of a long-haired she-devil with red eyes, black nails, and crooked fingers who can, quote, change herself into any animal, even in broad daylight.
He loves the smell of the soil and the rain, of the sea beyond the coconut palms.
Life's daily rhythms are interrupted only by a noontime sun that paralyzes everyone.
One day I asked her to tell me about paradise, he explains.
She showed me her coffee pot.
In it was the coffee from Les Palms that she prefers, mostly because of its aroma.
She explains that the sky is blue because of the sea.
For a long time I thought the sea and the sky were one, he says.
The sea has fishes, the sky stars.
Rain is the proof that the sky is liquid.
Mr. Laferriere, a journalist during the Duvalier regime, who went into exile in Canada in 1978 and now lives in Miami and Montreal, is the author of two previous novels.
In this new one, he pays homage to the innocent times.
Most of all, he has created a loving tribute to a wise and wonderful woman.
My name is Nicholas Basmanes.